# 1. Tổng quan
Định nghĩa và tính chất
- Many transactions of everyday life, such as using a credit card or a phone, lead to automated data collection.
- An important assumption in these forms of data collection is that the data continuously accumulate over time at a rapid rate.
- These dynamic data sets are referred to as data streams.
Ví dụ thực tế
- Example:
	- Transaction streams: Transaction streams are typically created by customer buying activity. An example is the data created by using a credit card, point-of-sale transaction at a supermarket, or the online purchase of an item.
	- Web click-streams: The activity of users at a popular Web site creates a Web click stream. If the site is sufficiently popular, the rate of generation of the data may be large enough to necessitate the need for a streaming approach.
	- Social streams: Online social networks such as Twitter continuously generate massive text streams because of user activity. The speed and volume of the stream typically scale superlinearly with the number of actors in the social network.
	- Network streams: Communication networks contain large volumes of traffic streams. Such streams are often mined for intrusions, outliers, or other unusual activity.
Giới thiệu về hệ thống quản lý luồng dữ liệu
- We can view a stream processor as a kind of data-management system:
	- Any number of streams can enter the system. Each stream can provide elements at its own schedule, they need not have the same data rates or data types, and the time between elements of one stream need not be uniform.
	- Streams may be archived in a large archival store, but we assume it is not possible to answer queries from the archival store.
	- There is also a working store, into which summaries or parts of streams may be placed, and which can be used for answering queries. It is of sufficiently limited capacity that it cannot store all the data from all the streams.
Thách thức chính
Yêu cầu phân tích thời gian thực
- Data streaming algorithms typically need to operate under the following constraints, at least a few of which are always present, whereas others are occasionally present:
	- One-pass constraint: Because volumes of data are generated continuously and rapidly, it is assumed that the data can be processed only once.
	- Concept drift: In most applications, the data may evolve over time.
	- Resource constraints: The data stream is typically generated by an external process, over which a user may have very little control. Therefore, the user also has little control over the arrival rate of the stream.
	- Massive-domain constraints: In some cases, when the attribute values are discrete, they may have a large number of distinct values.
- Because of the large volume of data streams, virtually all streaming methods use an online synopsis construction approach in the mining process. The basic idea is to create an online synopsis that is then leveraged for mining.